---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/eng/1-philosophy/1-theoretical/1-metaphysics/","created":"","updated":""}
---

## Definitions

> Beyond reality.

The intention of most metaphysical philosophers are matched, so their focus reside the generality in nature.

> At the side of Physics.

A general roman gave this literal name as an attempt to order and translate piles of Aristotle’s papers, known as the *Aristotelic canon*. As time passes, it is lost, and after it was recovered by the muslins of Al-Ándalus, it was translated again in latin by the christians erudites as they found muslin texts. 
## Ontology

> Study of things.

> Study of beings in general.

### Pythagoras
- All things are numbers. (Monism)
- The cosmos comes from numerical principles.
	- The physical world, the matter, is an imitation of the eternal mathematical world, the form.
### Heraclitus
- Movement and panta rhei. (Impermanence)
- The logos like the supreme fire. (Dinamic)
### Parmenides
- Being is and non-being is not. (Permanence)
	- “Nothing comes from nothing”. (Eternal)
	- Any being can’t be vanished from nothing. (Eternal)
	- Any being can’t be another being. (Immutable)
	- The change is an illusion. (Rationalism)
- The logos like the perfect sphere. (Static)
- “There _is_ a void; therefore the void is not nothing; therefore there is not the void”. (Immovable)
### Leucippus
- All things can be divided until it is impossible to divide, thus, fundamental particle is that. (Atomism & monism)
	- Infinite number and kinds of atoms. (Pluralism) 
- Being is and non-being is. (Dualism)
	- The non-being is, so the void is.
	- The being is, so the atom is.
- The movement, therefore, is. (Movable)
### Gorgias
- Being is not and non-being is. (Relativism)
	1. Nothing is. (Nihilism)
	2. Even if something is, nothing can be known about it. (Agnosticism)
	3. Even if something can be known about it, knowledge about it can't be communicated to others. (Skepticism)
	4. Even if it can be communicated, it cannot be understood. (Skepticism)
### Democritus
- Atoms are fundamental particle of all things. (Atomism & monism)
	- Indestructible. (Eternal)
	- Always have been and always will be in motion.
- "The more any indivisible exceeds, the heavier it is”.
	- The mass of things depends on the quantity of atoms they possess.
### Zhuangzi
- “Zhuangzi dreamt that he was a butterfly. In awakening, he ignored if he was Zhuangzi that had dreamt that he was a butterfly or if he was a butterfly and he was dreaming that he was Zhuangzi”. (Skepticism)
	1. If one knows the distinction between both, how can one say if one is already slept or awake?
	2. Then, it is impossible to find out.
	3. Therefore, this is the transformation of the things.
### Socrates
- Being is essence.
- Being is and non-being is not. (Eleatic essentialism)
### Plato
- Being is and non-being is not. (Eleatic essentialism)
- The essence, the universal, is a form. (Theory of forms)
	- Form = Idea
	- Three transcendentals of being.
		- Truth
		- Beauty
		- Good
- Particular is material, derived from universal.
- Two corresponding world. (Dualism)
	- One perfect & the other an imperfect copy.
	- One inmovible & the other movible.
	- One reality & the other appearance. (Allegory of the cave)
	- Inteligible world & sensible world.
- One authentic reality. (Realism of ideas)
### Aristotle
- Substance has material and form. (Hylemorphism and dualism)
- “Being is said in many ways”.
	- Being is and non-being is not (Eleatism)
	- Being is = Entity = Thing
	- Being as substantial (Essentialism)
		- The form of beings allows to be what it is. (Permanence)
	- Being as accident (Contingent)
		- The material of being allows the change itself without altering their essence. (Dinamic)
- One real world. (Realism & monism)
	- Third man argument.
		1. If a man is a man because he partakes in the form of man,
		2. then a third form would be required
		3. to explain how man and the form of man are both man, and so on, _ad infinitum_.
### Epicurus of Samos
- Clinamen (Libre albedrío)
	1. Debe haber uno que mueva sin ser movido para ser la causa de todo movimiento. (Aristotelismo)
	2. No puede haber un dios que motive la acción, ya que son perfectamente felices como para ocuparse en el ámbito terrenal. (Politeísmo)
	3. The atoms move straight down through the void by their own weight. (Mechanicism)
	4. They deflect a bit in space at a quite uncertain time and in uncertain places. (Indeterminism)
	5. Just enough that you could say that their motion has changed. (Freedom)
	6. But if they were not in the habit of swerving, they would all fall straight down through the depths of the void, like drops of rain, and no collision would occur, nor would any blow be produced among the atoms.
	7. In that case, nature would never have produced anything.
### Ibn Sina
- Whereas existence is the domain of the contingent and the accidental, essence endures within a being beyond the accidental.
- The fact of existence cannot be inferred from or accounted for by the essence of existing things, and that form and matter by themselves cannot interact and originate the movement of the universe or the progressive actualization of existing things. Existence must, therefore, be due to an agent-cause that necessitates, imparts, gives, or adds existence to an essence. To do so, the cause must be an existing thing and coexist with its effect.
- The impossible being is that which cannot exist, while the contingent in itself has the potentiality to be or not to be without entailing a contradiction. When actualized, the contingent becomes a 'necessary existent due to what is other than itself'. Thus, contingency-in-itself is potential beingness that could eventually be actualized by an external cause other than itself. The metaphysical structures of necessity and contingency are different. Necessary being due to itself is true in itself, while the contingent being is 'false in itself' and 'true due to something else other than itself'. The necessary is the source of its own being without borrowed existence. It is what always exists.
- The Necessary exists 'due-to-Its-Self', and has no essence other than existence. Furthermore, It is 'One' since there cannot be more than one 'Necessary-Existent-due-to-Itself' without differentia to distinguish them from each other. Yet, to require differentia entails that they exist 'due-to-themselves' as well as 'due to what is other than themselves'; and this is contradictory. However, if no differentia distinguishes them from each other, then there is no sense in which these 'Existents' are not one and the same.
- The 'Necessary-Existent-due-to-Itself' has no genus, nor a definition, nor a counterpart, nor an opposite, and is detached from matter, quality, quantity, place, situation and time.


- Essence is idea, or form. (Plato)
- Phenomenon is the one we know a posteriori within our nature capabilities, without altering their aspect. (Emmanuel Kant and Aristotle)
- Essence can’t be material, nor substantial. (Idealism)
- Thus, phenomenon does not have essence in it. (Heraclitus)
- The assimilation aspect of phenomenon to form makes our intuitive rationality to point essence to them, and not the form. (Plato)
	- For this reason, Plato realise that true philosophers are the ones who appreciate the three trascendentals of being while contemplating at them. 
- Forms and aspects are not the same. (Plato)
- All things from nature are composed by atoms. (Atomism)
- Atoms always move, they never stop; even if they are stuck with themselves, they still move because they vibrate. (Atomism)
- While the forms are immutable and permanent, they still firmly are to be in present, so it is to speak and to think. (Parmenides)
- All things from nature are entities.
- All things from ideas are essentials.
- Our universe, formed by entities, is one, referring as one world, while the one connecting to our consciousness is another world, belonging all the essence.
- Science’s objective is to understand our universe by transcending entities to essentials or creating essentials from entities. (Existentialism)
- Dual is One. And One is One.
## Theology
> Study of God, Goddess, or deities.
### Pythagoras
- The number one is divine.
- The tetraktys is divine, so ten is perfect.
### Socrates
- “Is the pious loved by the gods because it is pious, or is it pious because it is loved by the gods?”. (Skepticism)
### Plato
- Divinity is perfect and has the ==three transcendentals of being==, so the forms are divine.
	- Truth
	- Beauty
	- Good
- Participation of divinity is also divine, then the materials are too.
- Nature is, therefore, divine itself.
- Thus, “God is the measure of all things”.
### Aristotle
- The first unmoved motor is divine.
- God does not have a material for itself, so God’s existence is an exception.
- Due to its exception, empirical knowledge can’t reveal it.
- God is perfect, and has all attributes.
### Renatus Cartesius
- Res infinita is identified as God.
	- Substantia in strict sense.
	- Res infinita is perfect, not a thinking, nor a extension.
### Gottfried Leibniz
- The existence of universe is a gift from God.
- God’s creation always tends to be good.
- Thus, there is more good than bad.
- So, our world is the "best of all possible worlds". (Optimism)
### Voltaire
- “What is faith? Is it to believe that which is evident? No. It is perfectly evident to my mind that there exists a necessary, eternal, supreme, and intelligent being. This is no matter of faith, but of reason”. (Deism)
### Immanuel Kant
- God is outside of time and space.
- God is the reason of the universe’s existence.
- Only a priori can let us know him.

- God is unknown for us.
- No knowledge from them can be gained, even if it is a priori or a posteriori.
- Their existence is not revealed.
- Whether we refer God, Goddess, or Gods, we can’t procede the investigation.
## Mythology

## Cosmology

